spring-boot-project/spring-boot-docs/src/main/asciidoc/documentation-overview.adoc, before:

[[boot-documentation]]
= Spring Boot Documentation
include::attributes.adoc[]

[partintro]
--
This section provides a brief overview of Spring Boot reference documentation. It serves
as a map for the rest of the document.
--



[[boot-documentation-about]]
== About the Documentation
The latest copy
of the reference documentation is available at {spring-boot-docs-current}.

Copies of this document may be made for your own use and for distribution to others,
provided that you do not charge any fee for such copies and further provided that each
copy contains this Copyright Notice, whether distributed in print or electronically.



[[boot-documentation-getting-help]]
== Getting Help
If you have trouble with Spring Boot, we would like to help.

* Try the <<howto.adoc#howto, How-to documents>>. They provide solutions to the most
common questions.
* Learn the Spring basics. Spring Boot builds on many other Spring projects. Check the
https://spring.io[spring.io] web-site for a wealth of reference documentation. If you are
starting out with Spring, try one of the https://spring.io/guides[guides].
* Ask a question. We monitor https://stackoverflow.com[stackoverflow.com] for questions
tagged with https://stackoverflow.com/tags/spring-boot[`spring-boot`].
* Report bugs with Spring Boot at https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/issues.

NOTE: All of Spring Boot is open source, including the documentation. If you find
problems with the docs or if you want to improve them, please {github-code}[get
involved].



[[boot-documentation-first-steps]]
== First Steps
If you are getting started with Spring Boot or 'Spring' in general, start with
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started, the following topics>>:

* *From scratch:*
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-introducing-spring-boot, Overview>> |
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-system-requirements, Requirements>> |
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-installing-spring-boot, Installation>>
* *Tutorial:*
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application, Part 1>> |
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application-code, Part 2>>
* *Running your example:*
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application-run, Part 1>> |
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application-executable-jar, Part 2>>



== Working with Spring Boot
Ready to actually start using Spring Boot? <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot, We have
you covered>>:

* *Build systems:*
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-maven, Maven>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-gradle, Gradle>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-ant, Ant>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-starter, Starters>>
* *Best practices:*
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-structuring-your-code, Code Structure>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-configuration-classes, @Configuration>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-auto-configuration, @EnableAutoConfiguration>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-spring-beans-and-dependency-injection, Beans and
Dependency Injection>>
* *Running your code:*
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-from-an-ide, IDE>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-as-a-packaged-application, Packaged>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-with-the-maven-plugin, Maven>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-with-the-gradle-plugin, Gradle>>
* *Packaging your app:*
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-packaging-for-production, Production jars>>
* *Spring Boot CLI:*
<<spring-boot-cli.adoc#cli, Using the CLI>>



== Learning about Spring Boot Features
Need more details about Spring Boot's core features?
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features, The following content is for you>>:

* *Core Features:*
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-spring-application, SpringApplication>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-external-config, External Configuration>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-profiles, Profiles>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-logging, Logging>>
* *Web Applications:*
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-spring-mvc, MVC>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-embedded-container, Embedded Containers>>
* *Working with data:*
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-sql, SQL>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-nosql, NO-SQL>>
* *Messaging:*
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-messaging, Overview>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-jms, JMS>>
* *Testing:*
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-testing, Overview>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-testing-spring-boot-applications, Boot
Applications>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-test-utilities, Utils>>
* *Extending:*
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-developing-auto-configuration, Auto-configuration>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-condition-annotations, @Conditions>>



== Moving to Production
When you are ready to push your Spring Boot application to production, we have
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready, some tricks>> that you might like:

* *Management endpoints:*
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-endpoints, Overview>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-customizing-endpoints, Customization>>
* *Connection options:*
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-monitoring, HTTP>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-jmx, JMX>>
* *Monitoring:*
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-metrics, Metrics>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-auditing, Auditing>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-tracing, Tracing>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-process-monitoring, Process>>



== Advanced Topics
Finally, we have a few topics for more advanced users:

* *Spring Boot Applications Deployment:*
<<deployment.adoc#cloud-deployment, Cloud Deployment>> |
<<deployment.adoc#deployment-service, OS Service>>
* *Build tool plugins:*
<<build-tool-plugins.adoc#build-tool-plugins-maven-plugin, Maven>> |
<<build-tool-plugins.adoc#build-tool-plugins-gradle-plugin, Gradle>>
* *Appendix:*
<<appendix.adoc#common-application-properties, Application Properties>> |
<<appendix.adoc#auto-configuration-classes, Auto-configuration classes>> |
<<appendix.adoc#executable-jar, Executable Jars>>

Commit message:

Reinstate single page reference documentation
This commit reinstates the single-page variant for the Spring Boot
reference documentation.

Now the single and multi-page variants are hosted under the same
`"html"` folder, as `"index.html"` and `"single-index.html"`.
Note that files ending in `"index.html`" are treated as index files by
the spring-doc-resources project and their table of contents do not
display a "Back to index" link.

Fixes gh-16295

spring-boot-project/spring-boot-docs/src/main/asciidoc/documentation-overview.adoc, after:

[[boot-documentation]]
= Spring Boot Documentation
include::attributes.adoc[]

[partintro]
--
This section provides a brief overview of Spring Boot reference documentation. It serves
as a map for the rest of the document.
--



[[boot-documentation-about]]
== About the Documentation
The Spring Boot reference guide is available as
<<single-index.adoc#spring-boot-reference-documentation, single page>> or
<<index.adoc#spring-boot-reference-documentation, multi-page>> documentation.
The latest copy
of the reference documentation is available at {spring-boot-docs-current}.

Copies of this document may be made for your own use and for distribution to others,
provided that you do not charge any fee for such copies and further provided that each
copy contains this Copyright Notice, whether distributed in print or electronically.



[[boot-documentation-getting-help]]
== Getting Help
If you have trouble with Spring Boot, we would like to help.

* Try the <<howto.adoc#howto, How-to documents>>. They provide solutions to the most
common questions.
* Learn the Spring basics. Spring Boot builds on many other Spring projects. Check the
https://spring.io[spring.io] web-site for a wealth of reference documentation. If you are
starting out with Spring, try one of the https://spring.io/guides[guides].
* Ask a question. We monitor https://stackoverflow.com[stackoverflow.com] for questions
tagged with https://stackoverflow.com/tags/spring-boot[`spring-boot`].
* Report bugs with Spring Boot at https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/issues.

NOTE: All of Spring Boot is open source, including the documentation. If you find
problems with the docs or if you want to improve them, please {github-code}[get
involved].



[[boot-documentation-first-steps]]
== First Steps
If you are getting started with Spring Boot or 'Spring' in general, start with
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started, the following topics>>:

* *From scratch:*
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-introducing-spring-boot, Overview>> |
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-system-requirements, Requirements>> |
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-installing-spring-boot, Installation>>
* *Tutorial:*
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application, Part 1>> |
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application-code, Part 2>>
* *Running your example:*
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application-run, Part 1>> |
<<getting-started.adoc#getting-started-first-application-executable-jar, Part 2>>



== Working with Spring Boot
Ready to actually start using Spring Boot? <<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot, We have
you covered>>:

* *Build systems:*
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-maven, Maven>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-gradle, Gradle>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-ant, Ant>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-starter, Starters>>
* *Best practices:*
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-structuring-your-code, Code Structure>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-configuration-classes, @Configuration>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-auto-configuration, @EnableAutoConfiguration>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-spring-beans-and-dependency-injection, Beans and
Dependency Injection>>
* *Running your code:*
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-from-an-ide, IDE>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-as-a-packaged-application, Packaged>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-with-the-maven-plugin, Maven>> |
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-running-with-the-gradle-plugin, Gradle>>
* *Packaging your app:*
<<using-spring-boot.adoc#using-boot-packaging-for-production, Production jars>>
* *Spring Boot CLI:*
<<spring-boot-cli.adoc#cli, Using the CLI>>



== Learning about Spring Boot Features
Need more details about Spring Boot's core features?
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features, The following content is for you>>:

* *Core Features:*
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-spring-application, SpringApplication>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-external-config, External Configuration>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-profiles, Profiles>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-logging, Logging>>
* *Web Applications:*
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-spring-mvc, MVC>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-embedded-container, Embedded Containers>>
* *Working with data:*
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-sql, SQL>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-nosql, NO-SQL>>
* *Messaging:*
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-messaging, Overview>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-jms, JMS>>
* *Testing:*
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-testing, Overview>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-testing-spring-boot-applications, Boot
Applications>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-test-utilities, Utils>>
* *Extending:*
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-developing-auto-configuration, Auto-configuration>> |
<<spring-boot-features.adoc#boot-features-condition-annotations, @Conditions>>



== Moving to Production
When you are ready to push your Spring Boot application to production, we have
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready, some tricks>> that you might like:

* *Management endpoints:*
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-endpoints, Overview>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-customizing-endpoints, Customization>>
* *Connection options:*
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-monitoring, HTTP>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-jmx, JMX>>
* *Monitoring:*
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-metrics, Metrics>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-auditing, Auditing>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-tracing, Tracing>> |
<<production-ready-features.adoc#production-ready-process-monitoring, Process>>



== Advanced Topics
Finally, we have a few topics for more advanced users:

* *Spring Boot Applications Deployment:*
<<deployment.adoc#cloud-deployment, Cloud Deployment>> |
<<deployment.adoc#deployment-service, OS Service>>
* *Build tool plugins:*
<<build-tool-plugins.adoc#build-tool-plugins-maven-plugin, Maven>> |
<<build-tool-plugins.adoc#build-tool-plugins-gradle-plugin, Gradle>>
* *Appendix:*
<<appendix.adoc#common-application-properties, Application Properties>> |
<<appendix.adoc#auto-configuration-classes, Auto-configuration classes>> |
<<appendix.adoc#executable-jar, Executable Jars>>
