.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!--
Thanks for raising a Spring Boot issue. Please take the time to review the following
categories as some of them do not apply here.

❓Question
STOP!! Please ask questions about how to use something, or to understand why something isn't
working as you expect it to, on Stack Overflow using the spring-boot tag.

🐞 Bug report
Please provide details of the problem, including the version of Spring Boot that you
are using. If possible, please provide a test case or sample application that reproduces
the problem. This makes it much easier for us to diagnose the problem and to verify that
we have fixed it.

🚨 Security Vulnerability
STOP!! Please don't raise security vulnerabilities here. Head over to https://pivotal.io/security to learn how to disclose them responsibly.

🎁 Enhancement
Please start by describing the problem that you are trying to solve. There may already
be a solution, or there may be a way to solve it that you hadn't considered.

🙅 Managed dependency upgrade
You DO NOT need to raise an issue for a managed dependency version upgrade as there's a semi-automatic process for checking managed dependencies for new versions before a release. But pull requests for upgrades that are more involved than just a version property change are still most welcome.
-->

Commit message:

Add "With an Immediate Pull Request"
This commit also reorganises the "Please DO NOT Raise an Issue" cases.

Closes gh-14035

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!--
Thanks for raising a Spring Boot issue. Please take the time to review the following
categories as some of them do not apply here.

🙅 "Please DO NOT Raise an Issue" Cases
- Question
STOP!! Please ask questions about how to use something, or to understand why something isn't
working as you expect it to, on Stack Overflow using the spring-boot tag.
- Security Vulnerability
STOP!! Please don't raise security vulnerabilities here. Head over to https://pivotal.io/security to learn how to disclose them responsibly.
- Managed Dependency Upgrade
You DO NOT need to raise an issue for a managed dependency version upgrade as there's a semi-automatic process for checking managed dependencies for new versions before a release. BUT pull requests for upgrades that are more involved than just a version property change are still most welcome.
- With an Immediate Pull Request
An issue will be closed as a duplicate of the immediate pull request, so you don't have to raise an issue if you plan to create a pull request immediately.

🐞 Bug report
Please provide details of the problem, including the version of Spring Boot that you
are using. If possible, please provide a test case or sample application that reproduces
the problem. This makes it much easier for us to diagnose the problem and to verify that
we have fixed it.

🎁 Enhancement
Please start by describing the problem that you are trying to solve. There may already
be a solution, or there may be a way to solve it that you hadn't considered.
-->
