spring-boot-project/spring-boot-tools/spring-boot-gradle-plugin/src/main/asciidoc/index.adoc, before:

= Spring Boot Gradle Plugin Reference Guide
Andy Wilkinson
:doctype: book
:toc: left
:toclevels: 4
:source-highlighter: prettify
:numbered:
:icons: font
:hide-uri-scheme:
:docinfo: shared,private

:dependency-management-plugin: https://github.com/spring-gradle-plugins/dependency-management-plugin
:dependency-management-plugin-documentation: {dependency-management-plugin}/blob/master/README.md
:gradle-userguide: https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide
:gradle-dsl: https://docs.gradle.org/current/dsl
:gradle-api: https://docs.gradle.org/current/javadoc
:application-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/application_plugin.html
:groovy-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/groovy_plugin.html
:java-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/java_plugin.html
:war-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/war_plugin.html
:maven-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/maven_plugin.html
:maven-publish-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/maven_publish_plugin.html
:software-component: {gradle-userguide}/software_model_extend.html
:kotlin-plugin: https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/using-gradle.html
:spring-boot-docs: https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/{version}
:api-documentation: {spring-boot-docs}/gradle-plugin/api
:spring-boot-reference: {spring-boot-docs}/reference/htmlsingle
:build-info-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/buildinfo/BuildInfo.html
:boot-jar-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/bundling/BootJar.html
:boot-war-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/bundling/BootWar.html
:boot-run-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/run/BootRun.html
:github-code: https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/tree/{github-tag}



[[introduction]]
== Introduction

The Spring Boot Gradle Plugin provides Spring Boot support in https://gradle.org[Gradle],
allowing you to package executable jar or war archives, run Spring Boot applications, and
use the dependency management provided by `spring-boot-dependencies`. Spring Boot's
Gradle plugin requires Gradle 4.4 or later. If you choose to use the newer Kotlin DSL,
it requires Gradle 4.10 or later.

In addition to this user guide, {api-documentation}[API documentation] is also available.

include::getting-started.adoc[]
include::managing-dependencies.adoc[]
include::packaging.adoc[]
include::publishing.adoc[]
include::running.adoc[]
include::integrating-with-actuator.adoc[]
include::reacting.adoc[]

Commit message:

Raise minimum supported version of Gradle to 4.10 and encourage use of 5.x
Closes gh-16681

spring-boot-project/spring-boot-tools/spring-boot-gradle-plugin/src/main/asciidoc/index.adoc, after:

= Spring Boot Gradle Plugin Reference Guide
Andy Wilkinson
:doctype: book
:toc: left
:toclevels: 4
:source-highlighter: prettify
:numbered:
:icons: font
:hide-uri-scheme:
:docinfo: shared,private

:dependency-management-plugin: https://github.com/spring-gradle-plugins/dependency-management-plugin
:dependency-management-plugin-documentation: {dependency-management-plugin}/blob/master/README.md
:gradle-userguide: https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide
:gradle-dsl: https://docs.gradle.org/current/dsl
:gradle-api: https://docs.gradle.org/current/javadoc
:application-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/application_plugin.html
:groovy-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/groovy_plugin.html
:java-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/java_plugin.html
:war-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/war_plugin.html
:maven-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/maven_plugin.html
:maven-publish-plugin: {gradle-userguide}/maven_publish_plugin.html
:software-component: {gradle-userguide}/software_model_extend.html
:kotlin-plugin: https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/using-gradle.html
:spring-boot-docs: https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/{version}
:api-documentation: {spring-boot-docs}/gradle-plugin/api
:spring-boot-reference: {spring-boot-docs}/reference/htmlsingle
:build-info-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/buildinfo/BuildInfo.html
:boot-jar-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/bundling/BootJar.html
:boot-war-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/bundling/BootWar.html
:boot-run-javadoc: {api-documentation}/org/springframework/boot/gradle/tasks/run/BootRun.html
:github-code: https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/tree/{github-tag}



[[introduction]]
== Introduction

The Spring Boot Gradle Plugin provides Spring Boot support in https://gradle.org[Gradle],
allowing you to package executable jar or war archives, run Spring Boot applications, and
use the dependency management provided by `spring-boot-dependencies`. Spring Boot's
Gradle plugin requires Gradle 5.x (4.10 is also supported but this support is deprecated
and will be removed in a future release).

In addition to this user guide, {api-documentation}[API documentation] is also available.

include::getting-started.adoc[]
include::managing-dependencies.adoc[]
include::packaging.adoc[]
include::publishing.adoc[]
include::running.adoc[]
include::integrating-with-actuator.adoc[]
include::reacting.adoc[]
